README.md, before:

# VersaCode - The AI-Native Web IDE

VersaCode is a free, open-source, and feature-rich web-based Integrated Development Environment (IDE) designed for the modern developer. It combines the power and familiar interface of desktop editors like VS Code with the accessibility of a web app and the intelligence of generative AI.

![VersaCode IDE Screenshot](https://storage.googleapis.com/firebase-studio-v2-assets/versacode-screenshot.png)

## ✨ Core Features

- **AI-Powered Tools**: Leverage generative AI for code generation from prompts, context-aware code suggestions, and a conversational AI Assistant panel to refactor code or answer questions.
- **Full IDE Experience**: A complete, VS Code-like interface including a file explorer, multi-tab editor, integrated client-side terminal, and a problems/output panel.
- **Customizable Workspace**: A beautiful, responsive layout with resizable and collapsible panels, light and dark themes, and persisted UI state to remember your setup.
- **Complete File Management**: Full file and folder management within a virtual file system, including create, rename, delete, drag-and-drop, and the ability to upload your own projects.
- **Monaco-Powered Editor**: A professional code editor with multi-tab support, syntax highlighting, auto-save, per-file undo/redo history, and rich context menus.
- **Keyboard-Driven Workflow**: Access all major functions through a Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P`) and standard keyboard shortcuts.
- **Simulated Source Control**: A fully interactive source control panel that allows you to stage, unstage, and commit changes within the IDE's virtual file system.

## 🚀 Technology Stack

- **Framework**: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
- **Language**: [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **UI Components**: [ShadCN/UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **Code Editor**: [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/) (The editor that powers VS Code)
- **Generative AI**: [Genkit](https://firebase.google.com/docs/genkit) (with Google AI Plugin)
- **State Persistence**: Browser `localStorage`

## 🏁 Getting Started

To get a local instance of VersaCode running for development:

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/FirebaseExtended/firebase-studio.git
    ```
2.  **Navigate to the project directory:**
    ```bash
    cd firebase-studio/versacode-editor
    ```
3.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```
4.  **Run the development server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:9002`. The main IDE interface is located at the `/editor` route.

## 🤝 Contributing

VersaCode is a community-driven project, and contributions are welcome! Whether it's adding new features, fixing bugs, or improving documentation, every contribution helps.

To learn more about the project architecture, feature specifications, and development roadmap, please explore the `/docs` directory in this repository.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

continue setup playwright automation uint test intergration tst etc,,end

README.md, after:


# VersaCode - The AI-Native Web IDE

VersaCode is a free, open-source, and feature-rich web-based Integrated Development Environment (IDE) designed for the modern developer. It combines the power and familiar interface of desktop editors like VS Code with the accessibility of a web app and the intelligence of generative AI.

![VersaCode IDE Screenshot](https://storage.googleapis.com/firebase-studio-v2-assets/versacode-screenshot.png)

## ✨ Core Features

- **AI-Powered Tools**: Leverage generative AI for code generation from prompts, context-aware code suggestions, and a conversational AI Assistant panel to refactor code or answer questions.
- **Full IDE Experience**: A complete, VS Code-like interface including a file explorer, multi-tab editor, integrated client-side terminal, and a problems/output panel.
- **Customizable Workspace**: A beautiful, responsive layout with resizable and collapsible panels, light and dark themes, and persisted UI state to remember your setup.
- **Complete File Management**: Full file and folder management within the browser's high-performance Origin Private File System (OPFS), including create, rename, delete, drag-and-drop, and the ability to upload your own projects.
- **Monaco-Powered Editor**: A professional code editor with multi-tab support, syntax highlighting, auto-save, per-file undo/redo history, and rich context menus.
- **Keyboard-Driven Workflow**: Access all major functions through a Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P`) and standard keyboard shortcuts.
- **Simulated Source Control**: A fully interactive source control panel that allows you to stage, unstage, and commit changes within the IDE's virtual file system.

## 🚀 Technology Stack

- **Framework**: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
- **Language**: [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **UI Components**: [ShadCN/UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **Code Editor**: [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/) (The editor that powers VS Code)
- **Generative AI**: [Genkit](https://firebase.google.com/docs/genkit) (with Google AI Plugin)
- **State Persistence**: Browser Origin Private File System (OPFS) & `localStorage` for UI state.
- **Testing**: [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) for End-to-End tests.

## 🏁 Getting Started

To get a local instance of VersaCode running for development:

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/FirebaseExtended/firebase-studio.git
    ```
2.  **Navigate to the project directory:**
    ```bash
    cd firebase-studio/versacode-editor
    ```
3.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```
4.  **Run the development server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:9002`. The main IDE interface is located at the `/editor` route.

## 🧪 Testing

This project uses Playwright for end-to-end testing. To run the tests:

1.  **Install Playwright browsers:**
    ```bash
    npx playwright install
    ```
2.  **Run the E2E tests:**
    ```bash
    npm run test:e2e
    ```

## 🤝 Contributing

VersaCode is a community-driven project, and contributions are welcome! Please check out the `CONTRIBUTING.md` file and the `/docs` directory to learn more about the project architecture, feature specifications, and how to get involved.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
